docs(security) api server authentication rework (#878)
kumahq/kuma-website: docs/docs/1.7.x/security/api-server-auth.md

> # API server authentication

Author: It was a `vale` suggestion. I think we should follow it.

Kuma exposes API server on [ports](../networking/networking.md) `5681` and `5682` (protected by TLS).

An authenticated user can be authorized to execute administrative actions such as
* Managing administrative resources like Kuma Secrets on Universal

> * Generating user token, data plane proxy token, zone ingress token, zone token

Author: tried `Generating different token types .e.g: dpp, zone...` but honestly, it looks weird. I'd rather leave it as is

## User token

A user token is a signed JWT token that contains
* The name of the user
* The list of groups that a user belongs to
* Expiration date of the token

### Groups

A user can be a part of many groups. Kuma adds two groups to a user automatically:

> * Every authenticated user is a part of `mesh-system:authenticated`.
> * Every user that doesn't provide authentication data is a part of `mesh-system:unauthenticated`.

Reviewer: Why do we need to explain what unauthenticated (user that doesn't provide authentication) means? Is it ok to just make it simpler by doing something like this:

```suggestion
* authenticated users are a part of `mesh-system:authenticated`.
* unauthenticated users are a part of `mesh-system:unauthenticated`.
```

### Admin user token

> Kuma creates an admin user token when the control plane starts.

Reviewer: Is it different with each start? Is it when it starts or when it's installed?

Author: Technically on the first start or the CP, but if you remove it, it's recreated, but I guess recreation part is explained in `Disabling bootstrap of the admin user token`

The admin user token is a user token issued for user `mesh-system:admin` that belongs to `mesh-system:admin` group.

> This group is [by default authorized](./api-access-control.md) to execute all administrative operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This group is [authorized by default](./api-access-control.md) to execute all administrative operations.
```

It sounds a bit more natural this way (at least to me) - maybe some native speakers can chip in (@michaelbeaumont @parkanzky).

:::: tabs :options="{ useUrlFragment: false }"
::: tab "Kubernetes"
1. Access admin user token

   Use `kubectl` to extract the admin token
   ```sh
   kubectl get secret admin-user-token -n kuma-system --template={{.data.value}} | base64 -d
   ```

2. Expose Kuma CP to be accessible from your machine

>    To access Kuma CP via kumactl, you need to expose Kuma CP outside of a cluster. You can do this in several ways:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To access Kuma CP via kumactl, you need to expose Kuma CP outside of a cluster in one of the following ways:
```

✻ Header
{
  "alg": "RS256",
  "kid": "1",
  "typ": "JWT"
}

✻ Payload
{
  "Name": "john",
  "Groups": [
    "team-a"
  ],
  "exp": 1636811674,
  "nbf": 1636724974,
  "iat": 1636725274,
  "jti": "bf3d0b2e-d840-4cb6-bf7c-b90f54391468"
}
   Issued At: 1636725274 11/12/2021, 2:54:34 PM
   Not Before: 1636724974 11/12/2021, 2:49:34 PM
   Expiration Time: 1636811674 11/13/2021, 2:54:34 PM

✻ Signature XsaPcQ5wVzRLs4o1FWywf6kw4r2ceyLGxYO8EbyA0fAxU6BPPRsW71ueD8ZlS4JlD4UrVtQQ7LG-z_nIxlDRAYhx4mmHnSjtqWZIsVS13QRrm41zccZ0SKHYxGvWMW4IkGwUbA0UZOJGno8vbpI6jTGfY9bmof5FpJJAj_sf99jCaI1H_n3n5UxtwKVN7dXXD82r6axj700jgQD-2O8gnejzlTjZkBpPF_lGnlBbd39S34VNwT0UlvRJLmCRdfh5EL24dFt0tyzQqDG2gE1RuGvTV9LOT77ZsjfMP9CITICivF6Z7uqvlOYal10jd5gN0A6w6KSI8CCaDLmVgUHvAw
```

### Token revocation

Kuma doesn't keep the list of issued tokens. To invalidate the token, you can add it to a revocation list.
Every user token has its own ID. As you saw in the previous section, it's available in payload under `jti` key.
To revoke tokens, specify list of revoked IDs separated by `,` and store it as `GlobalSecret` named `user-token-revocations`

:::: tabs :options="{ useUrlFragment: false }"

> ::: tab "Kubernetes"

Reviewer 2: Maybe in these examples you could use `jwt` .e.g: `pbpaste | jwt decode - --json | jq -r '.payload.jti'`

   ::::

2. Regenerate user tokens

   Create new user tokens. Tokens are always signed by the signing key with the highest serial number.

>    Now tokens signed by either new or old signing key are valid.

Reviewer: Using "starting from now" to me more clearly indicates that the action just taken resulted in the change.

```suggestion
   Starting from now tokens signed by either new or old signing key are valid.
```

   ::::

   All new requests to the control plane now require tokens signed with the new signing key.

### Disabling bootstrap of the admin user token

You can remove the default admin user token from the storage and prevent it from being recreated.
Keep in mind that even if you remove the admin user token, the signing key is still present.
A malicious actor that acquires the signing key, can generate an admin token.

:::: tabs :options="{ useUrlFragment: false }"
::: tab "Kubernetes"
1. Delete `admin-user-token` Secret
```sh
kubectl delete secret admin-user-token -n kuma-namespace
```

2. Disable bootstrap of the token
   [Configure a control plane](../documentation/configuration.md) with `KUMA_API_SERVER_AUTHN_TOKENS_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_TOKEN` set to `false`.
   :::
   ::: tab "Universal"
1. Delete `admin-user-token` Global Secret
```sh
kumactl delete global-secret admin-user-token
```

2. Disable bootstrap of the token
   [Configure a control plane](../documentation/configuration.md) with `KUMA_API_SERVER_AUTHN_TOKENS_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_TOKEN` set to `false`.
   :::
   ::::

## Admin client certificates

This section describes the alternative way of authenticating to API Server.

> Admin client certificates are deprecated. If you are using it, please migrate to the user token in preceding section.

Reviewer 2: Probably should be put in a `::: warning` section

   mkdir /opt/client-certs
   cp /tmp/tls.crt /opt/client-certs/client1.pem 
   ```

>    All client certificates must end with `.pem` extension. Remember to only put provide certificates without keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   All client certificates must end with `.pem` extension. Remember to only provide certificates without keys.
```

   :::
   ::::

3. Configure `kumactl` with valid client certificate
   ```sh
   kumactl config control-planes add \
     --name=<NAME>
     --address=https://<KUMA_CP_DNS_NAME>:5682 \
     --client-cert-file=/tmp/tls.crt \
     --client-key-file=/tmp/tls.key \
     --ca-cert-file=/tmp/ca.crt
   ```

   If you want to skip CP verification, use `--skip-verify` instead of `--ca-cert-file`.

## Multizone

In a multizone setup, users execute a majority of actions on the global control plane.
However, some actions like generating dataplane tokens are available on the zone control plane.
The global control plane doesn't propagate authentication credentials to the zone control plane.

> You can set up consistent user tokens across the whole setup can by manually synchronizing signing key from global to zone control planes. 

Reviewer: Not a scope of this PR but how do I manually sync that up?

Author: changed synchronizing to copying. Just use kumactl/kubectl to copy global secret from Global CP and put it in Zone CP

> You can set up consistent user tokens across the whole setup can by manually synchronizing signing key from global to zone control planes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can set up consistent user tokens across the whole setup by manually synchronizing signing key from global to zone control planes. 
```
